Karthik Srinivasan: themes?
Karthik Srinivasan: There is… there are two poles.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm requesting you to complete those polls.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, also complete this part, right? There's another poll before that. Have you done HDR case studies before?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'd also like to know how many of you have done it, and you've not done it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yep.
Karthik Srinivasan: -Oh.
Karthik Srinivasan: I was trying to find him.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, very accurate.
Karthik Srinivasan: You should be having trouble.
Karthik Srinivasan: You do have access to it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Great.
Karthik Srinivasan: So most of you have done it, right? Around two-thirds has done it, third hasn't.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's not a very positive thing, like, people are not very happy about… since we are kings.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, do you want to share your experience on what works, what doesn't work in HDR cases? What is the pain point?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, not like what it's worth.
Karthik Srinivasan: If it's a lot to read, then it's a pain. Okay. But, it… It's only 30 pages.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll give you one month to read.
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know that he's controlled in that 30 days or not.
Karthik Srinivasan: I wouldn't expect you to read… Yeah, so if it is in a group and all, it would be good, HPR. I usually, when I took it, it was, like, 5 or 6, 5 or 6 cases at one time. It was too difficult to do it. I want you guys to go do it, for those who are… the node, who are partakers.
Karthik Srinivasan: it was a good experience for a sportsman, like, including me, right? I've never taught it, I've never seen the student at work.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I've heard, like, from a lot of these APA courses.
Karthik Srinivasan: It can go both ways. Have you done?
Karthik Srinivasan: I didn't
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, so I was recommended by another faculty before me. In few cases, I thought, as much as you until the…
Karthik Srinivasan: It's, again, it says you have to pay something, but most of the students, what I find is they don't read the case. Yeah, they want you to read it.
Karthik Srinivasan: The expression for MVPs.
Karthik Srinivasan: So the more you read it, the more you get to thank for it. Even if you're not able to read the whole thing, it's fine.
Karthik Srinivasan: We can use AI. But we don't go in-depth. The entire session.
Karthik Srinivasan: We will absolutely discuss things, and we will try to get things out. So, my, idea there is not to quiz you more and make sure that you memorize it. It's about going through this phenomenon where, you know, every company is getting
Karthik Srinivasan: Affected by AI, everybody wants to use AI.
Karthik Srinivasan: And every employee is getting threatened by AI, right? So are we going to be replaced by AI or not? So I felt this case was tight going and addressing that spot, right? Where we are seeing how
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, this AI, agent AI plays a role, right, into this dynamics of employee-employer relationship. And we would have learned agent AI by then, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: That's what I was thinking. Reading that will give you an actual insight into what actually happens in these companies. But I agree with France that if Mosaic Source does this, that,
Karthik Srinivasan: So they're just replacing employees with agents.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's not like a domain company which has a different product, like a furniture company or a finance company, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Salesforce is involved with, cloud offerings, with the customer management.
Karthik Srinivasan: Using IT and all that, right? So, it's something… I have some students and colleagues working in Salesforce and all that. It's a big company, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, so think about it, and…
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me know, okay? I'm still not decided looking at your responses. It looks like most of you are not interested.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can tell me how, I can drop it altogether. I don't need to teach it. I don't need to include it if you guys don't want it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, okay. So I'll put it out here. I don't know if you can change your responses, or if you want to tell me about it, you know, we can talk about it. I would like to know what works and what doesn't work, right, in HBR.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, let's get back.
Karthik Srinivasan: The speaker for today, she had to cancel because she has strep throat. That's what she told me, when I asked her, right? Until then, I was, like, guessing that she would come, right? I was wishing that she would come, she would come, okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's…
Karthik Srinivasan: Here's where we start, right? Before that, I think I'm really happy with the midterm results. Most of you have done very well.
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, the exam was too easy for some of you. Like, I know Brent completed it in, like, 2 minutes into the exam, and you were the first to go, and I was like, oh, is that something wrong? But yeah, I think,
Karthik Srinivasan: But for some of you, if you want to think about it, like, you know.
Karthik Srinivasan: like, extra points or something, we can discuss about it, okay? If you are struggling with the exam.
Karthik Srinivasan: The feedback should be there on the exam, you should be able to see the correct response and correct response by now.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Everybody has taken the exam, so it should be available.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm thinking the same format, for now. This is my pilot course, right? I'm teaching this first time.
Karthik Srinivasan: I want to keep the exams, and I want to see how they're gonna perform.
Karthik Srinivasan: accordingly updated, you know, have some manual things. Right now, multiple choice is what I'm thinking, but again, if you have feedback, you want me to have something else in the exam, some more hands-on.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm okay with it, okay? If you want some essay-type questions, then I can put that as well. I get cherry cheese also. A lot of them are, like, thumbs up. So, if this exam is okay, I'm okay. But I feel… it's not worth your time. You guys get done with 10 minutes… in 10 minutes, then the rest of the one hour is, not utilized, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay. Yeah, so let's start from here. These are the prompt engineering slides, right? We really went… rushed through it last time.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? I mean, the last slide.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is where I think, Caleb's point also of using the local, the LM Studio, that'll be relevant.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, let's try that today.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, this was the very last slide.
Karthik Srinivasan: In that particular file.
Karthik Srinivasan: Did any of you try this, these codes? Any of you?
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, we tried it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Did you open this GitHub code? Nope, we didn't. Okay. So try it out whenever you can.
Karthik Srinivasan: Get some API access, some of these keys. The AI Studio will have some free keys. You can use it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? I… did I show you this Grok thing?
Karthik Srinivasan: Shall we try this Grok code right now?
Karthik Srinivasan: Did I show you or not? I'm not sure, no? We did this? Yeah, we didn't do this one. So one of it wasn't working, right? That day, I think this… this link wasn't working. Oops.
Karthik Srinivasan: You have exceeded a secondary rate limit.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, let me try signing in.
Karthik Srinivasan: And let's hope… That gets me the access to…
Karthik Srinivasan: That could be a fight, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: So last time, this port wasn't working, right? Again, you can do this on Colab.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can get an API key from, OpenAI API.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? OpenAI, API pricing… Login. Login to… oops, yeah, it's not…
Karthik Srinivasan: ChatGBT, it's an API platform you need to get into.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So you can do that.
Karthik Srinivasan: We tried this one, AI Studio. We also tried Rock, I believe. Let's try LM Studio, right? So LM Studio, I have shared the code.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I don't think the code will work on Colab, right? So even if you run it on Colab, it's not going to work.
Karthik Srinivasan: So what you can do is, you can download the raw file, Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, let's try to run it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, the first step, I mean, before… is to get the LM Studio running, right? So.
Karthik Srinivasan: This was the tutorial for getting the LM Studio to run.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? You just go to LM Studio website.
Karthik Srinivasan: LM Studio Download, and then download the LM Studio tool.
Karthik Srinivasan: How many of you have already downloaded the LM Studio 2?
Karthik Srinivasan: More, yeah. So, please download it if you have not done it already. Let's… so hopefully I have the LM Studio in this
Karthik Srinivasan: computer, so I do have it here, right? So if not, just download it. It's a very small, doesn't take a lot of space.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so once you download the tool, it should open up…
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So this is the yin and yang of it, right? We already learned about the cloud version, where you pay for OpenAI, you pay for Google Studio, I mean, Gemini, you pay for all those cloud tools, right? You pay for per use. This is the…
Karthik Srinivasan: in-house version of it, right? It is the local version where you install
Karthik Srinivasan: a tool. So this is just a, interface tool, right? So it's not the actual large language models, but you can download large language models using this tool, right? So it's a very easy tool to,
Karthik Srinivasan: use. So once you have installed it, this is how it'll look like, right? On the top, you need to choose the model, right? So there are many models.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can choose from.
Karthik Srinivasan: Or you can download. You can download models from…
Karthik Srinivasan: there'll be some option here, right? So there should be…
Karthik Srinivasan: an option to download, right? So this is where we had that,
Karthik Srinivasan: saw, you know, we had that interface, we had that, server thing, which we were trying to, run, right? So the reason… the idea about the server
Karthik Srinivasan: was to,
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, help you out with the storage, right? So if you are… you don't want to download these large language models into your own computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: let's
Karthik Srinivasan: run it from… let's store the models in this RESTFS, right? So RESTFS stands for Research File System, so every faculty has around 1TB of storage.
Karthik Srinivasan: in the RESTFS, University of Kansas storage system, right? So this is the… there's some information about this here, right? So…
Karthik Srinivasan: I have given you access, so all the students.
Karthik Srinivasan: here, like, you are the class students, I have given you access using my, my kO.A identity and into this vSAN 765 access group, right? So all of you should have access to this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So you are all… you should be able to access the RESFS, right? So, what do we do with the RESFS? We are going to download the large language models into the RESTFS,
Karthik Srinivasan: So that we can access all those models from LM Studio, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's go through that process. Here, you have downloaded LM Studio, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: then you need to use KU Anywhere VPN for this, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So you do need that, I believe, right? Maybe… maybe you don't need it if you are in the local, KU, internet, right? KU Wi-Fi.
Karthik Srinivasan: We will see. We don't need it, we don't need it, right? But, but…
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's… right now, I don't have the KU… I've not… I've not logged in, right? So let's see if I'm able to access the, the,
Karthik Srinivasan: SFS without the KU Anywhere internet, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So once I do that, right, once… assuming that, you know.
Karthik Srinivasan: we do or we do not need KU anywhere, we go into the next step, right? After installing LM Studio, we're going to map the SFS network drive, right? So before we map, I would want you to, copy this. So, okay, let me just download this first.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm gonna down… I'm going to copy this link, From the tutorial.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then we'll go to a folder, we'll go to the local folder on your Windows or on Mac.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then, here, We can just paste
Karthik Srinivasan: this, link, right? Let's try to paste this link. And so right now, it's automatically going into my,
Karthik Srinivasan: map server, because I already mapped it, right? So I'm going to… I'm going to unmap it to show it to you. I'm going to unmap it to show how the pro… how the thing… how the…
Karthik Srinivasan: file needs to be mapped, right? How the server needs to be mapped.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oops. So, even here, I think… Did you guys try, using the, link here.
Karthik Srinivasan: Is it asking for credentials? Anyone?
Karthik Srinivasan: It is. It is. And… okay, let me try mapping. So the other way is to… the right way through it is to click on the map network drive.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So the map network drive will look something like this. So, Caleb, did you reach this step? Yeah. Yeah, and then we paste this particular link, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is the RESFS.
Karthik Srinivasan: home.co.edu, groups.
Karthik Srinivasan: Business Kartikist, right? So this is my, folder, and within the folder, we are using the LM Studio folder. So we all should have access to the LM Studio folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: I click on this, Button, connect using different credentials, Click on Finish.
Karthik Srinivasan: What does it say? Check the spelling of the name.
Karthik Srinivasan: maybe a network issue, right? So it's not able to connect, right? So what I'll do is…
Karthik Srinivasan: I will go to VPN, I downloaded this Cisco VPN. I'm going to connect to it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Use my KUID,
Karthik Srinivasan: who I have logged into my, into the VPN. So, if the VPN has been logged.
Karthik Srinivasan: You should see this message.
Karthik Srinivasan: Once it is logged, on the, on the…
Karthik Srinivasan: Bottom right, you should be able to see
Karthik Srinivasan: That, you know, this green tick.
Karthik Srinivasan: that this VPN has been connected.
Karthik Srinivasan: So there should be a lock sign on that.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it means that your Cisco VPN is connected, right? Now, let me try it again. Once my VPN has been connected, now I'll again try to
Karthik Srinivasan: go through the RESFS, go to… go to the… use… access the RESFS server, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: We'll see, something is happening. So I think it's…
Karthik Srinivasan: Restricting me from using this, right? So I'm going to… I'm going to try this step again.
Karthik Srinivasan: Go to Math Trial.
Karthik Srinivasan: maybe I'll try another… Alexander.
Karthik Srinivasan: So the network credentials, we have to give the same as one.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes, the same thing. So, you have to give your KU ID for it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Maybe in the tutorial, I haven't given the same… so this kind of maps… this is the link I was looking for.
Karthik Srinivasan: And the one that we pasted, that has a file in it, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So that seems to be… different from what this link is, right? So there was a… so this is…
Karthik Srinivasan: Here, we are using… here it is backslash. For some reason, this gets converted to… or forward slash. Let us try with backslash.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, I'm going to remove all the file thing, and… And just put backslash.
Karthik Srinivasan: Instead of forward slash, then scroll.
Karthik Srinivasan: that works. If that works, then apologies for, you know, this… this translation, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, so…
Karthik Srinivasan: Again, let me go back to Caleb. Callum, did you try this? Yeah, I got to this screen, and then when I sign in, it tells me it balanced. Okay, let me try it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Should kind of get in, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, we're talking… Thank God.
Karthik Srinivasan: It got you through the… just your ID, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm not sure.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: So yeah, let me circle back to you guys. What are the… how many of you are facing issues with this? Raise your hands. 1, 2, 3… you guys have got it?
Karthik Srinivasan: Did you get it?
Karthik Srinivasan: All of… all of you. Trent, are you able to get this? I haven't tried it. I haven't tried it? Okay. So, with this, I'm a mister. Okay. I'm putting my password. Yeah, it should work. Let me see whether you're…
Karthik Srinivasan: excuse me.
Karthik Srinivasan: focus for stickiness.
Karthik Srinivasan: You're logged into, Cisco, right? Yeah. Done that? Yeah. Shareichi, where are you getting?
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you for supporting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, I'm not gonna be here.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, that's, that's what it is.
Karthik Srinivasan: That's good, that's one group. Then you need… this is the local…
Karthik Srinivasan: Download it. I won't install any of this. I would recommend installing…
Karthik Srinivasan: If you scroll down a bit… I don't know how to raise, please.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, it'll tell you how much space it is going to take in your computer, right? So all of these… so, Jemad, this 4 billion is a small part. Why did my drive install, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm installing it up here.
Karthik Srinivasan: Well, he has to reach up to that stage. He's still, installing LM Studio, so the LM Studio is back, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes. No, no, but this is the LM's tutorial right here. Now, go to that… go to that particular tutorial document.
Karthik Srinivasan: The second is this big boy,
Karthik Srinivasan: It'll be in a handy.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, that's how many of us.
Karthik Srinivasan: This would be important.
Karthik Srinivasan: I mean, yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's not working hard.
Karthik Srinivasan: understood, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Guys.
Karthik Srinivasan: Don't mean something.
Karthik Srinivasan: the pure inability.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, this will only work if your KU Anywhere is installed.
Karthik Srinivasan: You need to have KU anywhere, just for VPN.
Karthik Srinivasan: Did you download it? I applied the site, that's what I was thinking.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, I know that they are configuring that software.
Karthik Srinivasan: 6 months, I know, really gave me per cut, and then they scheduled.
Karthik Srinivasan: focus on the counter.
Karthik Srinivasan: I know there are many steps to this, so for those who are not able to access the SFS folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's just use one model. Just install one model, and we can continue using…
Karthik Srinivasan: necessarily. You know, if I'm saving time, that's a bill.
Karthik Srinivasan: What about you?
Karthik Srinivasan: Because I pay you in the pocketbook.
Karthik Srinivasan: But without the break, you want to log in.
Karthik Srinivasan: Who wins?
Karthik Srinivasan: The local thing this week, so…
Karthik Srinivasan: Bye.
Karthik Srinivasan: Meaning.
Karthik Srinivasan: But then what exactly means?
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't like to…
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's say it'll be considered a L.
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you very funds as well.
Karthik Srinivasan: Probably fair enough.
Karthik Srinivasan: One time.
Karthik Srinivasan: No, it's… it's bad itself.
Karthik Srinivasan: Initially.
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know what else.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: Everybody.
Karthik Srinivasan: What are the main arguments?
Karthik Srinivasan: Excuse me.
Karthik Srinivasan: Nothing else coming up.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, I'll try working with the network rest.
Karthik Srinivasan: That's how I've been able to help you with it, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: You're gonna have fun.
Karthik Srinivasan: He says, develop a life.
Karthik Srinivasan: I think he's wrong.
Karthik Srinivasan: I would suggest how funny.
Karthik Srinivasan: I knew the word, I said.
Karthik Srinivasan: Laurie, you're not able to access it. Oh, okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: The network password, that's where I'm at. I have done VPN and all. After you do this… Yeah, so for those who are able to access this.
Karthik Srinivasan: You should be able to see a host of models on your,
Karthik Srinivasan: this thing, right? On the LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Where was the LM Studio?
Karthik Srinivasan: Hello, studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, you and us?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, you downloaded my lessons.
Karthik Srinivasan: I have, I have.
Karthik Srinivasan: No mistake.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, that's okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: Understandable than me.
Karthik Srinivasan: So… Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right.
Karthik Srinivasan: Stops.
Karthik Srinivasan: It was 6.
Karthik Srinivasan: Makes sense.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, so if you were able to successfully map your, RESFS folder, Your models should be available
Karthik Srinivasan: You should be able to see our models.
Karthik Srinivasan: Somewhere over here, right? So if you go to your main chat window.
Karthik Srinivasan: all your models that are being shared in the RESFS can be available here.
Karthik Srinivasan: If you have followed all the steps in the tutorial, right? So the last step in the tutorial is to connect your,
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, to direct your…
Karthik Srinivasan: the, you know, the models to be downloaded into a particular folder, right? So, into the map folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: So if these steps are very complex for you, if you're not able to follow it.
Karthik Srinivasan: you can just install any of these models on your local computers, right? So, you can see that Meta Llama 3.18 billion is 4.37GB, so it is just going to be installed in your local computer, that's all. So, you're not using the SFS folder, you're not using a host of other models, you're just
Karthik Srinivasan: sticking with one local model, which is fine, you know? As far as you get an exposure of using the local model, I'm okay with it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, this is the… and then, you know, these are all GGUF models, so these will run even if you do not have any GPU on your computer, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: But typically, LLMs will work very well when there is, when there are GPUs, okay? Here, it shows the memory consumption.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it shows that my computer has 64GB RAM, out of which I've used up 18.71 GB, right? Which is being used by LM Studio currently, right? Even though I've not run anything, really, significant, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, you can go to a new chat in LM Studio. Okay, how many of you tried LM Studio?
Karthik Srinivasan: Did you try LM Studio? Yeah, so you tried. Anybody else? You tried it? Jack? Yeah. So, yeah, you need to choose one of these models, whatever you've installed. So, in our case, since RESFS has been, you know, mapped.
Karthik Srinivasan: you can use any of these models, or else whichever model you have installed, right? So, Phi is a very good model, fee for mini-reasoning. Meta Llama 3.5… 3.18 GB, 8 billion parameters is a good model. The default model, which they will want you to install, is that
Karthik Srinivasan: Is the open…
Karthik Srinivasan: this one, GPD OSS 20 billion parameters. This is a model which is by default, which is around 11.3 GB storage. So this is the default model which most of you will be prompted to use, which is also a decent model. So once you choose the model for a particular chat.
Karthik Srinivasan: like how you do with ChatGPT or, you know, Gemini or Grok, you can just, you know, chat with it, right? What perplexity or Claude? You can… so this model takes a little bit of time to load.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And then you can chat with the model, right? So you can ask questions, right? Explain about, prompt structures.
Karthik Srinivasan: So many of them are,
Karthik Srinivasan: Instruct models, some of them are, thinking models, reasoning models, some of them are very basic models, right? So, instruct models are limited to their scope, so they'll be… the size will be around 8 billion, 10 billion parameters.
Karthik Srinivasan: the models that you see on a commercial level, right, what you use, you subscribe to, right, like ChatGPT, those will be hundreds of billions parameters, right? So GPT-5 is
Karthik Srinivasan: We don't know, maybe terabytes, terabillion, you know, not terabillion, trillions of parameters, you know, we don't know. So, compared to those, these are pretty small models.
Karthik Srinivasan: But they are still fitting into your local computer, right? So these are very… that's what is unique about this. You're not accessing a cloud, but you have downloaded an entire AI model into your own computer, and you're running it.
Karthik Srinivasan: That's why it is very unique, right? That's why you need to learn how to do this, the local LNMs. So what are the advantages of doing this? You can load your own data, you can… this is secure in your own computer, you're not… it's not going anywhere outside.
Karthik Srinivasan: The model is… you can fine-tune the model, update the model, all the parameters are available to you, right? So it is your own thing, right? You're just downloading it from the internet, and you can change it and customize it as you want, right? So the LM Studio is just an interface to access these models.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, this model is taking a lot of time to load for me, because my compu- this computer, right? This is the, this is my… I'm…
Karthik Srinivasan: accessing another computer here, so it's not… this is not my… this is not the classroom computer, right? So this is the classroom computer, right? So I can, let… let me see. This… this had disappeared earlier. So let me choose a smaller model. Let's see. Do we,
Karthik Srinivasan: So this one is, like, very small, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: LFM… 1.2 billion nanometers. So I'm going to load this 1.2
Karthik Srinivasan: billion parameters model. So this should… the 1.2 billion parameters should work for almost every budget.
Karthik Srinivasan: Even if you have a very, very slow computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: Hopefully, this model should be running for you, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And let me just open, a new chat.
Karthik Srinivasan: And you can ask anything to it, right? 400 into 20.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Let's… once it loads, so it's still loading.
Karthik Srinivasan: hasn't loaded completely. So, some of these models are very, very basic. So, 1.2 billion model, billion parameters is practically nothing.
Karthik Srinivasan: it will not be able to do even simple instructions. Typically, it will go wrong with most of the things you ask it, okay? But sometimes it is pretty good because of the, you know, it's been, it has learned from
Karthik Srinivasan: other models, right? So this is pretty decent, right? So for 1.2 million parameters, it is able to do some computation for us, right? Now, let's say, okay, calculate, pi…
Karthik Srinivasan: up to… 100 digits, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's see.
Karthik Srinivasan: So I want you to try these local models on LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Try different models out there.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's… this is running a Python code, right? It's not trying to compute it on its own, but it figured out that to do… solve this problem, I need to execute a Python code. It writes the Python code, then I think hopefully it will get the result, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is very… I'm very impressed with 1.2 billion parameters, we're able to do a lot more
Karthik Srinivasan: than I would have expected, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And it may go wrong. So these small models may hallucinate much more, because they're very light, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So… If you guys use,
Karthik Srinivasan: your phones, right? Nowadays, many of your phones are very heavy in terms of computation, right? So they come with 8GB RAM and all that. So very… in, like, around 6 months, or maybe in a year, you will have LLMs, small LLMs in your phones itself.
Karthik Srinivasan: Do you guys know that any of… are there any LLMs in your phones already? No, right? We don't know. Maybe they'll… that's the next thing. It will have these small, large, and models, like… like these, right? 1.2 billion is not…
Karthik Srinivasan: Not a lot, it was just taking a few GB of your storage.
Karthik Srinivasan: if this is put into a computer, into a lap, into a mobile phone instead of a computer, right? So I think this was pretty decent. It was able to run this code.
Karthik Srinivasan: And I don't know if we can verify, right? Let's take the answer of this, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And take a bigger model, so let's, load a…
Karthik Srinivasan: Or we can even ask, online, right? So let's… let's go to… Let's say, arena, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm going to arena.ai, and this we did it for the assignment, right? I'm going to just ask two models.
Karthik Srinivasan: 3.1 Pro and Claude Opus, I would say, okay, is… this accurate
Karthik Srinivasan: For pi up to 100 digits.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So I'm just going to…
Karthik Srinivasan: Ask it, let's see what they have to say.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes, this is accurate. So, you can verify it with a bigger model. So, these Opus 4.C, 4.3, Gemini 3.4 are really big models compared to that 1.2 billion parameters model, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: It's broken down into 10 digits each, so this is, it's…
Karthik Srinivasan: contained exactly 100 digits of the decimal point. Yes, so it's accurate. Okay, so…
Karthik Srinivasan: we can choose some other models. So from a chatting perspective, it's fine, but from using it for your enterprise perspective, this is where the Python code may be helpful.
Karthik Srinivasan: So we downloaded the Python code, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: We downloaded it from… Good.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? There was this button where we used to download the raw file, Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Go to Downloads, there would be a…
Karthik Srinivasan: LM Studio Access file, right? Now let's, install this other tool.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is another thing which I wanted to discuss with you, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Sorry guys, I'm going through all random things today.
Karthik Srinivasan: Because the other thing…
Karthik Srinivasan: Cool.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, VS Code. So, how many of you use VS Code here?
Karthik Srinivasan: We export one flu, I would recommend you to install VS4.
Karthik Srinivasan: Because it is very, very, very helpful, you know, for coding nowadays. You can download it on your Windows or Mac, you know, so I would recommend installing VS Code. And there is another tool called,
Karthik Srinivasan: anti-gravity, right? So I spoke about anti-gravity, and then, I think we had, Jacobs, he had, demoed, Cursor, right? And Trent, have you used… any of you have used, Claude code here?
Karthik Srinivasan: So Cloud Code is kind of the leader in all these things, okay? But Cloud Code requires you to, you know, subscribe for $20 a month.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, I will show you the power of these. These are very, very powerful platforms to do programming and stuff, so I would recommend that you use any of these. You use one of these at least, right? Either VS Code, or you use Anti-Gravity. So, if you have the Google Gemini Pro license.
Karthik Srinivasan: you can use anti-gravity with a Gemini Pro, right? So, that is a pretty powerful combination. If you want to buy the subscription for $20, use Claude Code, which is also very powerful, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Kind of, right? Or is it, like, a different interface? I haven't used plot before. Is it?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, so VS Code, I usually use, VS Code, like, GitHub Copilot, right? The Copilot is free for students and instructors, so I got that Copilot, you know, the free version for the education version, and I use it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is the discussion, you know, I thought, you know, we should…
Karthik Srinivasan: experiment with one of these tools. I would recommend, strongly recommend you to
Karthik Srinivasan: try out at least one of these, right? So you can start with VS Code.
Karthik Srinivasan: If you're, you know, if you're okay with, subscribing to Cloud Code, that's the best, right? I haven't tried Cloud Code yet. I'm gonna do that later, but I've heard so many good things about it. I heavily use anti-gravity for all my research.
Karthik Srinivasan: So that's free.
Karthik Srinivasan: all of you have that anti-gravity S3, you can try it. Codex is that,
Karthik Srinivasan: ChatGPT's, version, right? OpenAI Codex, you can use that as well.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So…
Karthik Srinivasan: So these are, like, these are used for white coding, right? You guys ever heard about white coding?
Karthik Srinivasan: Anybody aside by whiteboarding you?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, Trent, can you share, what have you done on Whitefield?
Karthik Srinivasan: Sorry, I just need to add that.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, Google, okay, while you're writing your code and…
Karthik Srinivasan: But you just start with it, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, I do the same ones, you know. Even though you may know Python, or R, or…
Karthik Srinivasan: There you have it, guys. Let's start writing.
Karthik Srinivasan: Anybody else who has used white coding?
Karthik Srinivasan: William, have you tried? Extension. Extension, we also, like, decide to, like, put it all like I was talking, you know, outside of class,
Karthik Srinivasan: Miss you.
Karthik Srinivasan: So you just spelled the fuck I'll spell it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Any other advice they intend to buy themselves.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right. Anybody else has done pseudocoding or bycoding?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yep, I believe.
Karthik Srinivasan: Sweet.
Karthik Srinivasan: One minute, buddy.
Karthik Srinivasan: Well, it's one of the artisan.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, that's kind of there, right? You have every cell, and it will ask you and generate, and it can ask.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, it'll give you a better idea. So, I am not a programmer, my background was in engineering, then I was an IT developer. I mean, you could say I was a programmer, but I was doing programming in mainframe.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I consider myself more of a data scientist than a core programmer, right? And my wife had a requirement, you know? She had a requirement for, organizing a region.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, keep what's okay in mind.
Karthik Srinivasan: And she wanted to, use, she has an experiment. In the experiments, they are collecting for information, they're having blood, you know, and…
Karthik Srinivasan: Cancer.
Karthik Srinivasan: So she wanted to organize with every dollar to a top dealer, but every organization, equipment, and…
Karthik Srinivasan: So this was the problem, and they were looking at vendors, IT vendors who would, you know, stores, make a software for that, right? Then I was like, okay, let me get my hands on with Whitefoot, right? Why not? So that… the first project that I did was Xiaobos.
Karthik Srinivasan: eval… the teaching eval thing. This was my second project. So let me show you that,
Karthik Srinivasan: The… Okay, let me draw to my, remote again.
Karthik Srinivasan: What is that?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is the app I developed for Seoul.
Karthik Srinivasan: Well, these are inventory management, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And it is developed on Streamlit. Streamlit, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So the entire app is free of cost. I mean, I didn't spend anything on it. The backend was Google Sheets, Google Spreadsheets, so whenever there is some new data, the data gets… so this was the test email I created, and you log out, right? So let's start from here. So you have a login.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? The login and the password will be provided by the admin, so I have an admin account I created, right? And these are the very simple interface with… this is a simple interface with four options, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So the first screen is the dashboard, which says, okay, how many empty boxes? So we have these empty boxes, some of them are stored, right? We have some data and…
Karthik Srinivasan: for this particular user, and these are the data that's visible for them, right? And then if I… this user goes to the freezer and says, okay, now I want to… I have some new experiments, and now I want to store this into the freezer, right? And let's say the patient is,
Karthik Srinivasan: test… A patient, 10th, March, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, from this patient, we had, these four aliquots. So, aliquots is like a test tube, right? So, you have these test tubes. So, we got so much of samples from the patient, I will say, allocate the,
Karthik Srinivasan: spots, right? So we are allocating the spots for storing this, and this generates the,
Karthik Srinivasan: the printer labels, right? So basically, this will be, the labels which are generated, put to put into those test tubes, right? And then you can basically can print it and stick it, right? Then these are some unique, IDs.
Karthik Srinivasan: Which get generated, which, which tells us where the… where in the PZER it's going to be kept.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So once that is done, the dashboard will update the information, so the database is updated with the new information of this particular patient, right? So this test patient, 10th March. So we have all this data
Karthik Srinivasan: which has been updated into the Google spreadsheet in the backend, right? And then you scan… when you want to take out samples from the fridge, you want to take a… make a record of that, right? That you have removed some data. So, let's say, I want to remove one of this, right? So this…
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm not able to, copy it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me copy this, right? So I will… let's say I'm going to remove this guy and send it to KU Business Code, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And, so this is from one lab to another, or something like that, right? So when I check out something, that data should be updated in the dashboard as well, right? Very simple inventory management tool.
Karthik Srinivasan: which was completely created, and this is a user guide, right? So if they come in, how do they use that, right? Very simple tool using white coding, right? How do I do that? So let's try to do something like this, using anti-gravity, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So anti-gravity, I'm comfortable with, but you can use any other tool, like VS Code, or Cloud Code, or Codex, or anything, okay? So let's, let's try it, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: First, let's, the first thing is to…
Karthik Srinivasan: choose an empty folder, so that's what I do, usually.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll choose a folder, new folder, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And, vSAN 765 in class, hands-on, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is my folder, and there's nothing in this folder, right? I go to anti-gravity, I… this is the anti-gravity I downloaded.
Karthik Srinivasan: from, from the web… from their website. I click on Open Folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: And I go to that particular, file folder that I just created, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: this was the folder, I selected it, right? So this is an empty project.
Karthik Srinivasan: White coding? Nothing, right? So I don't have anything here. No data, no nothing. Okay, now let's start thinking.
Karthik Srinivasan: what is an app you want to develop? Let's develop some… anything. Which has a primetime, which requires some data, does some analysis.
Karthik Srinivasan: What do you want to do?
Karthik Srinivasan: Find the best deals for Taco Tuesday.
Karthik Srinivasan: Find the best year for applicants here.
Karthik Srinivasan: There you go?
Karthik Srinivasan: Or Taco Tuesday, right? Okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: What else? Let's, let's get some ideas, and then we can choose one of these.
Karthik Srinivasan: Moving against?
Karthik Srinivasan: It involves a contact… And then I've…
Karthik Srinivasan: software. So, finding the best deals is the one time, and you go to the type of music.
Karthik Srinivasan: Look at their data, and then it tells you, okay, these are the deals. What do you define by best? You don't know what is best.
Karthik Srinivasan: But if it is, like, In terms of money, yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: Any of that, we're gonna be gone.
Karthik Srinivasan: Maybe, like, an app when I did.
Karthik Srinivasan: access, information from, I think it's gas company to tell you where the cheapest gas is, and we'll get increasing costs.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, 30… And cheapest gas… Wherever you're at.
Karthik Srinivasan: Residents, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, we can do that, and… Should it, like…
Karthik Srinivasan: Displayed in a content or speak? Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: Notification, we can turn it on.
Karthik Srinivasan: App notification, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, I think Gatsby is already there, what you're saying. So, we are making another Gatsby like that, is what you're saying.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so the… looks for cheapest gas in Lawrence.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then… I like to, like… What other ideas? You wish?
Karthik Srinivasan: Some kind of an app.
Karthik Srinivasan: Something that takes in data, does something, and puts something in it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Are you guys okay with the Gasper yet? So, Liam, I'm going to go with the Gaspery.
Karthik Srinivasan: Because your idea is good, but I think it's too simple. We will try that towards the end, yeah. Maybe an app to predict the demand of products of
Karthik Srinivasan: a pharmacy.
Karthik Srinivasan: demand products. So, those can be done.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I think they are more complex to do. You need a… you need a prediction model.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And you need the data module. So this is more like, front-end and back-end, you know, your website.
Karthik Srinivasan: One thing I was experimenting with, you have an integration model, right? You input the data. There should be an interface where you can upload the data.
Karthik Srinivasan: It looks at the data, then you have to tell it which is the input, which are the outputs, and then it runs a regression on it for you to output the results. Instead of you having to use R, you just use this particular app and run it, right? So something like SPSS, but
Karthik Srinivasan: Way more automated.
Karthik Srinivasan: Nate?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, let's try this. Let's try the GasBuddy thing. In Lawrence… so we just start writing in English, that's all we need to do. There are many gas…
Karthik Srinivasan: patients… I wish to create… An app that can…
Karthik Srinivasan: Show me the gas prices…
Karthik Srinivasan: In Lawrence, in real time.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? The interface… Should be… Simple… that, with a table, Showing the cheapest…
Karthik Srinivasan: Gas price, gas station, location, with location… and price… You know, showing them…
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm showing the gas stations.
Karthik Srinivasan: in the order… Of price, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: The table should have… the… the location.
Karthik Srinivasan: price and the brand, right? Brand of the gas that, like, is it British Petroleum or, you know, cost, or something like that, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's, let's try this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Many gas stations,
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, I think I need to say… okay, I'm going to… I'm going to retract it, right? I'm going to say Lawrence.
Karthik Srinivasan: Kansas, USA.
Karthik Srinivasan: to be specific that I'm looking for Lawrence cancer, or else it'll be, like, thinking about what is Lawrence, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Sometimes it takes a little bit of time. So this is different from… So Ashley, this is different from…
Karthik Srinivasan: pull up, right? I'm not riding any code here.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm just giving it requirements, and I keep iterating through it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? This is at a next level, okay? I demo it to some of my friends and show what it can do, and, like, we all need to start doing this. Like, even seasoned programmers are doing this many times, right? I mean, this can go wrong, there can be challenges.
Karthik Srinivasan: But the speed at which things can get done is, you know, is unparalleled, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So it is using Gemini 3.1 Pro here, right, and it has generated some script, right? It is saying, import request, beautiful soup. So this is extracting, scraping this data from GasBuddy, right, and it is looking for Lawrence.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, it's going to get the response from that particular website. It's going to print, text of first thousand characters or something, right? And with the,
Karthik Srinivasan: or if it doesn't… if you're not able to scrape, it's going to give us fail to fetch, right? So I'm just accepting these changes.
Karthik Srinivasan: since we know a little bit of Python, we can kind of check what it does. So, we have multiple agents here, which are discussing with each other, trying to run this, right? So, they are discussing and thinking amongst each other, right? So, they are,
Karthik Srinivasan: they kind of… it's very interesting. When you download this log, so there's one way of, you know, you can export the log. It will talk about everything that it did, and everything the user asked for, and what it can do.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And it will create a nice plan, implementation plan for you,
Karthik Srinivasan: You know? And then it'll get things done, right? So it already created one file called Test Scrape, so it's scraping this website and… and seeing, getting the price, right? It wants to install some of the,
Karthik Srinivasan: things, right, in a Python code. So there are two options here. One is you are okay with installing it in your computer, right, in the global environment, which is one. The other recommended option is to create a virtual environment. So, have you guys heard about virtual environment?
Karthik Srinivasan: Again, some of you have. So, virtual environment basically means you don't want to disturb
Karthik Srinivasan: your entire, you know, whatever Python packages you have installed in your own computer, but now you're creating a separate folder
Karthik Srinivasan: where the Python will only access those packets, right? So I will say, I will say reject, or maybe I will, before this, right? Create a virtual environment in the folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: for… installing Python package, right? Into the project port. This is good enough.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So it will create a virtual environment to install all those.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes. So, now the, the… Right, so now it's installing.
Karthik Srinivasan: it'll install all the packages that it needs to install into this virtual environment, okay? So it's created that. So instead of you disturbing your own computer, you know, all the Python getting, you know, all the packages, right? You are only interested
Karthik Srinivasan: For this project, the packages are to be relevant for this project, right? So you don't want to install it everywhere.
Karthik Srinivasan: So that's a good practice where you create virtual environments.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it is installing these things. Once it installs.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's again using the Streamlit. Somehow, it allows Streamlit. Even the website that I showed you, that was on Streamlit, right? So Streamlit is a free online, you know, web application where you can have all these applications with the front end there, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: There are many search applications, like, there is one called Gradio, you can use Gradio, and I will also demo that for another agent EKI session, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, it created, so it's set up the virtual environment.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's… it's also displayed, this team lit to display daytime grass prices in Lawrence, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Writing streamlit applications and gas prices. So we didn't do anything. We just gave it a requirement.
Karthik Srinivasan: And also, we told it there's a virtual environment, so don't disturb my Python, you know, that I've already installed, but you only install Python packets into the local foot, right? So now, it is asking at every step, right? It's saying, oh, I want to install this Selenium. So Selenium is used for scraping data.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll say, okay, sure, go for it. Install everything in your virtual environment. So, if I want to scrap this project, all I need to do is delete that particular folder that I created, right? Nothing else.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's, again, it's installing stuff, it is going to write some more code, it is going to test the code, whether it works or not, right? So all these things which would have taken days for us, right, to create an app.
Karthik Srinivasan: It all takes around 10 minutes. Seems like magic, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So I… it's not as easy as that sometimes.
Karthik Srinivasan: you have to keep it trading with it, you know, back and forth with it. For me, sometimes it takes hours to get things done, but it is better than days or months, you know?
Karthik Srinivasan: So here it has updated the script, so now instead of import, the simple request and beautiful soup, now it is using Selenium. Selenium is way more powerful, scraper.
Karthik Srinivasan: Why is it doing that? Maybe the GasBuddy website has some kind of, you know, guardrails, which is not allowing
Karthik Srinivasan: Python or other codes to accept, access that particular website. But despite that, these agents are able to, you know.
Karthik Srinivasan: use some more sophisticated, you know, softwares to scrape it, right? So it is… this code is getting deleted by it. It created the code, right? Now it is deleting this code, and it is creating this code, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: It's, again, the same link, but now this time, this is a more sophisticated code to scrape it, because the first time it ran it, it figured out that it's not able to get some data, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Again, there's no guarantee that this would run.
Karthik Srinivasan: But this is something you guys can explore for your group project, no? You can try exploring this.
Karthik Srinivasan: And, it is iterative, write coding, because white coding is easy, guys, but it is very error-prone. If you know what the Python code is, you want to know narrowing down into things and giving it clear steps and using the correct prompts are very important. Sometimes.
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, as William was saying, it will go for a, you know, it'll go into a loop, right? Continuous loop. You'll be looking for things which are not there, or it'll give you suboptimal results, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So right now it's, again, it has updated the test script, and now it's waiting for scraping test results from GasBuddy.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so it's implementing the code, it's going to test this code.
Karthik Srinivasan: And the results are an out.txt, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's see what Out.Text has. So this is in the… let's go to that folder, right? So this was a folder… let's see… outdoor text…
Karthik Srinivasan: So this has, I think it's pretty good, right? On 20 East Asian elements.
Karthik Srinivasan: And it gives us the brands, The location, the prices, Right? Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, Charlie? You raised your hand now?
Karthik Srinivasan: So we can even have an interface where, you know, it is…
Karthik Srinivasan: What ideas do you have after this?
Karthik Srinivasan: They just give me this item, Nick.
Karthik Srinivasan: when you're there. And so, like, you're driving, and if your gas has been below, you can just… You can do that, right? Right now, you have a… you have a COVID night.
Karthik Srinivasan: Which gives you, for a static allocation.
Karthik Srinivasan: How are you gonna take me to drop the audience?
Karthik Srinivasan: What updated is for?
Karthik Srinivasan: to have some kind of API, which connects to your phone, that, like, detects the location, right? Through the location, it knows… it actually gets that information. So, you can update it, and then you can have an interface. In the front end, maybe you can say, instead of just listing all the locations, why don't you create a map for me?
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Show me the maps and the prices. So you can keep iterating through it, right? So once it is successful… so the secret to, you know, successful webcoding is knowing how to prototype, knowing how to debug a little bit, you know, not…
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, having very clear steps, right? Thinking the process through.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it deleted this test scrape file, and it created a nice app.pipy file, right? So now it has finalized the code that needs to be done. It has a nice document saying what all things it had done.
Karthik Srinivasan: To get the output, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And let's see where it is now. It is… now it's saying Streamlit Run App, right? So it is running the app already. So it is using Streamlit, which is a Python software here, and now it has a nice app here, right? Similar to what the front end that I showed you, and now it's showing the real-time gas prices.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, this app scrapes the latest grass prices in Lawrence, scraping real-time prices from GasBuddy, this may take a few seconds.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then it'll give you the prices.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: This is pretty cool, right? To see, we didn't write a single line of code.
Karthik Srinivasan: We didn't even edit anything, and it's able to do this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So this is something you guys want to check it out, right? Right now, it's free of cost. You're not… you're not paying anything, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So try this. Try this. So all you need is the idea, right? What Adam came with, I want to have this kind of an interface, I want to have this kind of an app. That's all you need nowadays, okay, to create stuff like this.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, any thoughts, guys? You can update this, right? You can keep telling it things. You can say, yeah, this is great.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I want the interface To also show a map.
Karthik Srinivasan: With the locations, right? In red,
Karthik Srinivasan: what do you say, the red, pin, right? The red pin. It'll update your code accordingly. So you just keep giving it requirements, it just keeps updating everything. Any questions, guys?
Karthik Srinivasan: What are your thoughts on this?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: Interesting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Can we use our own data? Anything. The folder can have anything. Okay. And if we have to have our own data, we have to upload it in this… That's not uploading. You're actually just finding…
Karthik Srinivasan: To a particular folder. To our… Yeah. I can change it. So, this was… So, and also, if it's, like, an, confidential stuff, can we do that? Yes. Okay. Right? It is not going anywhere in your data. It's just… it's not going anywhere, right? So, it's, so I had a,
Karthik Srinivasan: So this was my… I have several projects running, right? So sometimes I just open another window, so I'll create another window, and I will open another folder, and then it'll keep running.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And this is all in my local right now. Nothing is on website or something, right? The Streamlit app, if you notice the URL, the URL is a local host. So, only the interface, it looks like a browser, but it's not really on the web, right? It is just using
Karthik Srinivasan: You know? Okay. Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is pretty cool. So, anybody here who has used, white coding, any recommendations, anything you want to add to this?
Karthik Srinivasan: To try this, you'll be surprised at what you can do.
Karthik Srinivasan: For a group project, Or anything.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, on different apps.
Karthik Srinivasan: I am going to try it out for whatever, you know, I feel like I can just splurge $20 on it, or maybe the department can fund it. Right now, I don't see a reason why I need to go, okay? Since I'm able to do it for free, I don't do it, right? Otherwise.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is something I wanted to share with you, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: redid this?
Karthik Srinivasan: We looked at this. So, again, for those who were not able to do this, please reach out to me.
Karthik Srinivasan: we can get this done. If you are not interested in doing this, you can still use LM Studio on your local, you know, download that models on your own, no? That may be one or two models, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: But it may be very, very slow, right? These tools, because you have only, most of you have only CPUs, right? And in here, when you chat, you can update the system prompt, you have settings, like, you can adjust the temperature.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? You can… whatever you learned in the previous chapters, right? You can update top-case sampling, or, you know, you can have structured outputs, you can say you want a JSON output instead of something.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So you can say all that. You even have features for uploading the data, right? So there's an option for attaching files. So this is very cool for
Karthik Srinivasan: a free tool, right? So this is a local LLM.
Karthik Srinivasan: It lands on your own computer, right? And this is, again, very secure, because nothing is being sent out. The downside of this is that you have to download
Karthik Srinivasan: tools every now and then, every LLM, because these LLMs will get outdated, right? So if you… if you ask you, if I ask this GPD20 billion, what is your latest training date, or, no, what is your, what is the
Karthik Srinivasan: most recent date, your data is about, right? Something like that.
Karthik Srinivasan: System knowledge is 2024, right? So many of these local LLMs can get old, Because, I mean, there's no…
Karthik Srinivasan: Commercial, value for, you know,
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, free apps to be on, you know,
Karthik Srinivasan: to be provided and updated every now and then, right? So it is June 2024, compared to GPT-5 or, you know, all those other tools, which have been updated more often, right? Even… even GPT for that matter, right? If you go to GPT,
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't think the training date is most recent, okay? What is the most,
Karthik Srinivasan: recent training day. So even here, they don't train the,
Karthik Srinivasan: their data every day, right? So my base training is August 2025, right? So it's not very different.
Karthik Srinivasan: In your local model, it was 2024, here it is 2025, and today is March 2026, right? So this… even the results that these models give you.
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, they don't know what has happened after, you know, in the last 7 months, right? So they have to either look at the internet, or they have to use some kind of coding, or some kind of external app to be able to get that information, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So that… so that's… that's one of the things, right? So…
Karthik Srinivasan: So I wasn't able to get to the…
Karthik Srinivasan: Fourth thing, let me see if I have a couple of minutes for it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, I think next class we'll also go through this, right? I have some, you know, how to run
Karthik Srinivasan: using visuals to… VS Code, you know, this example that I, in my research, right? How do I do this? So, right now, we didn't have time to do this. Let's do it next time. But in the meanwhile, I would like you to, go through the,
Karthik Srinivasan: the sample code I shared.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Where is it?
Karthik Srinivasan: Downloads and the downloads.
Karthik Srinivasan: This was the sample code, right? Where is the sample code?
Karthik Srinivasan: Sorry, close in my local Right, this LM Studio access, I want you to… Try this code,
Karthik Srinivasan: Try it using LM Studio, okay? See whether you can run.
Karthik Srinivasan: Discord.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah. So the file that I just downloaded from Canvas.
Karthik Srinivasan: this is how it looks like. This is a JSON file, but you can open it as a Jupyter notebook, right? So if you open it in your Visual Studio Code.
Karthik Srinivasan: I want you to try to run this code.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, right now it doesn't open nicely, because I don't have the add-ons.
Karthik Srinivasan: try to run this, guys, in your local LNF, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you. So, see you on Thursday.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me switch it up, sorry. Let me switch it up.